---
layout: post
title: "OpenTX 2.2.0 RC11 (N363)"
description: ""
category: ""
tags: [News]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

We are happy to bring you the 11th release candidate of OpenTX 2.2.0, with support for the production version of the FrSky Horus radio!

**PLEASE NOTE** the following important information before hastily jumping on it:

- **This is pre-release software.** We've done our best to ensure its quality with main focus on the new Horus platform, with second priority on all Taranis versions (few changes from 2.1), then the other supported platforms, but we still expect there will be issues. As it is the purpose of a release candidate, we need your feedback to report things we may have missed.
- There is currently no documentation other than this page, so get yourself a good coffee to wake up, and refer to the the great communities for help e.g. openrcforums [here](http://openrcforums.com/forum/viewtopic.php?f=45&t=9158), RCGroups and threads like [this one](http://www.rcgroups.com/forums/showthread.php?t=2727927). You can pop in our [chat room](https://discord.gg/CZCwVx2) where other users and/or devs may be available.
- Check during companion install that it installs itself in the correct directory, usually you want "Companion 2.2". A bug that will still show up on this update may cause it to install itself in "Companion 2.1", potentially overwriting your 2.1 install.
- Companion supports reading and writing Horus firmware when the radio is powered off  and then connected to USB, using dfu-util and the libusb drivers installed by Zadig, exactly like for the Taranis. See the "Flashing your Taranis Radio" section in [this manual](https://opentx.gitbooks.io/opentx-taranis-manual/content/companion-introduction.html). Companion can back up existing firmware (see note below in known issues) including the stock FrSky one (save as .bin), and can flash the FrSky DFU bootloader so that no other tool and/or driver swapping is needed. You might need to disable the "Check hardware compatibility" checkbox in the flashing dialog.
- SD card contents can be found [here](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.2/nightly/sdcard/). Download the correct archive for your radio type, extract it to the root of an empty SD card and you'll have all needed files. Please note that all existing OpenTX sound packs won't work due to changes in the naming strategy, so you'll likely want to use those that are included in this archive until popular 3rd-party packs are adapted.
- OpenTX does not touch the internal flash of production Horus radios. Its contents do not need to be backed up and are not accessible in any way when OpenTX firmware is loaded.
- There is no bootloader on Horus at this point. The SD card can be accessed while the radio is powered on, **providing you selected the "massstorage" firmware option.**
- If you are using a beta Horus and are not starting fresh (i.e. you keep your models and settings from a previous OpenTX nightly) you will need to reconfigure pot types on the Radio->Hardware page and recalibrate your sticks and pots.

**Known issues:**

- Companion installer may try to install itself in the wrong directory, see above.
- The progress bar in companion when reading firmware from a Horus is broken and will reach 100% at only 25% progress. Just wait, the window will close when the process is finished.

A rough view of the changes in OpenTX 2.2 can be found [here](https://github.com/opentx/opentx/issues?page=1&q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A%22OpenTX+2.2.0%22).

Download and install Companion and use it to retrieve and transfer the latest OpenTX firmware to your radio after configuring the proper radio type.
**You need to check "Use OpenTX firmware nightly builds" in companion settings to be able to download firmware, and "Use companion nightly builds" to be notified of further companion release candidate updates.**

**Horus production version and beta version use different hardware. Companion defaults to production hardware, for beta radios check the "pcbdev" firmware option in the profile settings.**

**General information**

As we are getting closer to 2.2.0 release, we are now focusing on fixing the remaining issues rather than adding new features. As a result, you might see more frequent release of RC until we are ready to release 2.2.0.

If you are working on sound packs or other firmware addons **or would like to contribute translations for either the firmware or companion**, now is a great time to get ready for 2.2 release. (Translators, you can contact us on [rocket.chat](https://opentx.rocket.chat/) if you need assistance)

**Changes since 2.2.0 RC10**

- FrSky X7 : pushing ENT on telemetry screens will no longer reset telemetry, but bring a popup instead
- FrSky X7 : fix an issue preventing the use of some telemetry sensors to logical switch
- FrSky X7 : improve trim display in extreme positions
- FrSky X7 : add script for S6R/S8R configuration
- FrSky X7 : fix training input jack not working in master mode
- FrSky X7 : fix some unreachable GVARs in flight mode screens
- FrSky X7 : receivers can now be flashed using the bottom connector, if hw version permits it
- FrSky X7 : sd logs have been fixed
- FrSky X7 : add copy/paste/.. long press menu to global funcions and custom funcions
- FrSky X7 : long enter popup menu as been enabled for play value special function
- FrSky X9/X7 : fix GPS display in telemetry screens
- FrSky X9/X7 : MIDSIZE font '.' has been reduce in size and better aligned with the rest of the font
- FrSky X9/X7 : DBLSIZE font ':' has been reduce in size
- FrSky X9 : fix model image not always shown on boot
- FrSky X9 : since no heli wizard was available, choice has been remove from wizard list
- FrSky Horus/X9E : hardware FPU has been enabled, supports only float (M4)
- FrSky Horus : fix telemetry protocol switching
- FrSky Horus : Fix theme color handling
- FrSky Horus : Flashing of Smart Port devices now supported on external module pins
- FrSky S6R/S8R : add ability to select AUX1/AIL2, AUX2/ELE2 (both S6R and S8R are supported by the S6R scripts)
- FrSky X7 / Sky9X / 9X-PRO / AR9X : model backups now have date and time stamps
- Sky9X / 9X-PRO / AR9X : multimodule option is now available
- Sky9X / 9X-PRO / AR9X : a couple of UI bugs have been fixed
- LUA : all numbers are now handled as float instead of double as previously (speed and memory footprint improved)
- LUA : system enhancement have been made to improve stability of scripts
- LUA : make lcd.drawScreenTitle and lcd.drawCombobox compatible with X7
- LUA/Horus : you can now set the color of the screen when doing an lcd.clear()
- Simulator/Companion : significant improvement to FR translations, thx to LapinFou
- Simulator : UI has been massively reworked and improved
- Simulator : X9E simu finaly looks like an X9E
- Companion : a __lot__ of issues have been fixed around reading, writing, and moving model accross radio types
- Companion : debug output has been improved and now includes a search function
- Companion : Horus categories are now working
- Companion : Newly created Horus models now have their defaults set correctly
- Companion : Fixed Multiprotocol handling and added ability to edit option values (frequency tuning, ...)
- Companion/Simu : year handling fix
- Multiprotocol : FrSky EU-Lbt and GW008 protocol selection has been added.
- Multiprotocol : MULTI_STATUS and MULTI_TELEMETRY are both parsed (but the later one is prefered)
- Firmware compilation and distribution : the compile mechanisn has been improved and should make thing a lot smoother when a new version is released

**LUA Warning :** Due to the changes in Lua interpreter, all pre-compiled Lua scripts (.luac) will need to be re-compiled. This will happen automatically if the source file (.lua) is available.

When flashing firmware, you will have a "New firmware not compatible with the one installed" message on some radios. Double-check firmware is correct for your board and disable "Check Hardware compatibility" on flashing dialog.

Download links:

[SD Card](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.2/nightly/sdcard/) content (Note : RC11 uses 2.2v0006. Changes vs 2.2v0005 : S6R/S8R (new) for FrSky X7, S6R/S8R and WIZARD (changed) for X9/HORUS, THEMES for Horus)

[OpenTX Companion 2.2.0 RC11 (N363) - Windows Installer](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.2/nightly/companion/windows/companion-windows-2.2.0N363.exe)
If you get an error about "api-ms-win-crt-runtime-I1-1-0.dll missing" install [MS VC++ runtime](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/2999226/update-for-universal-c-runtime-in-windows).

[OpenTX Companion 2.2.0 RC11 (N363) - Mac OS X Disk Image](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.2/nightly/companion/macosx/opentx-companion-2.2.0N363.dmg)

OpenTX Companion 2.2.0 RC11 (N363) - Linux DEB Package [64-bit](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.2/nightly/companion/linux/companion22_2.2.0N363_amd64.deb)

OpenTX Companion 2.2.0 RC11 (N363) - Ubuntu [PPA](https://launchpad.net/~opentx-test/+archive/ubuntu/ppa) (Trusty and Yakkety, i386 and amd64)
