---
layout: post
title: "OpenTX 2.2.0 RC15 (N368)"
description: ""
category: ""
tags: [News]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

We are happy to bring you the 15th release candidate of OpenTX 2.2.0, with support for the production version of the FrSky Horus radio!

**PLEASE NOTE** the following important information before hastily jumping on it:

- **This is pre-release software.** We've done our best to ensure its quality with main focus on the new Horus and X7 platforms, with second priority on all Taranis versions (few changes from 2.1), then the other supported platforms, but we still expect there will be issues. As it is the purpose of a release candidate, we need your feedback to report things we may have missed.
- There is currently no documentation other than this page, so get yourself a good coffee to wake up, and refer to the the great communities for help e.g. openrcforums [here](http://openrcforums.com/forum/viewtopic.php?f=45&t=9158), RCGroups and threads like [this one](http://www.rcgroups.com/forums/showthread.php?t=2727927). You can pop in our [chat room](https://discord.gg/pAmmCp2) where other users and/or devs may be available.
- Check during companion install that it installs itself in the correct directory, usually you want "Companion 2.2". A bug that will still show up on this update may cause it to install itself in "Companion 2.1", potentially overwriting your 2.1 install.
- Companion supports reading and writing Horus firmware when the radio is powered off  and then connected to USB, using dfu-util and the libusb drivers installed by Zadig, exactly like for the Taranis. See the "Flashing your Taranis Radio" section in [this manual](https://opentx.gitbooks.io/opentx-taranis-manual/content/companion-introduction.html). Companion can back up existing firmware (see note below in known issues) including the stock FrSky one (save as .bin), and can flash the FrSky DFU bootloader so that no other tool and/or driver swapping is needed. You might need to disable the "Check hardware compatibility" checkbox in the flashing dialog.
- SD card contents can be found [here](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.2/nightly/sdcard/). Download the correct archive for your radio type, extract it to the root of an empty SD card and you'll have all needed files. Please note that all existing OpenTX sound packs won't work due to changes in the naming strategy, so you'll likely want to use those that are included in this archive until popular 3rd-party packs are adapted.
- OpenTX does not touch the internal flash of production Horus radios. Its contents do not need to be backed up and are not accessible in any way when OpenTX firmware is loaded.
- There is no bootloader on Horus at this point. The SD card can be accessed while the radio is powered on, **providing you selected the "massstorage" firmware option.**
- If you are using a beta Horus and are not starting fresh (i.e. you keep your models and settings from a previous OpenTX nightly) you will need to reconfigure pot types on the Radio->Hardware page and recalibrate your sticks and pots.

**Known issues:**

- Companion installer may try to install itself in the wrong directory, see above.
- The progress bar in companion when reading firmware from a Horus is broken and will reach 100% at only 25% progress. Just wait, the window will close when the process is finished.

A rough view of the changes in OpenTX 2.2 can be found [here](https://github.com/opentx/opentx/issues?page=1&q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A%22OpenTX+2.2.0%22).

Download and install Companion and use it to retrieve and transfer the latest OpenTX firmware to your radio after configuring the proper radio type.
**You need to check "Use OpenTX firmware nightly builds" in companion settings to be able to download firmware, and "Use companion nightly builds" to be notified of further companion release candidate updates.**

**Horus production version and beta version use different hardware. Companion defaults to production hardware, for beta radios check the "pcbdev" firmware option in the profile settings.**

**General information**

As we are getting closer to 2.2.0 release, we are now focusing on fixing the remaining issues rather than adding new features. As a result, you might see more frequent release of RC until we are ready to release 2.2.0.

If you are working on sound packs or other firmware addons **or would like to contribute translations for either the firmware or companion**, now is a great time to get ready for 2.2 release. (Translators, you can contact us on [rocket.chat](https://opentx.rocket.chat/) if you need assistance)

**Changes since 2.2.0 RC14**
- FrSky X7/Horus : Play delay at switch mid position moved to 1 second for consistency with X9
- FrSky X7 : fix display glitch in mixers [#4690]
- FrSky X7 : fix GVAR inc/dec special function [#4744]
 -FrSky X7 : fix a display issue for SMLSIZE timer display [#4756]
- FrSky Radio : fix an issue with double keys and sources [#4695]
- FrSky Radio : allow optional binding mode for X6R, X8R and XSR (firmware option, X6R/X8R require receiver beta firmware) [#4002]
- FrSky Horus : when model with no name are imported from other radio type, the basename part of modelxx.bin is displayed
- FrSky Horus : non working serial option in hardware screen has ben removed
- FrSky Horus : changes saved when switching widgets [#4761]
- FrSky Horus : fix for internal GPS not selectable (---) in several languages
- All radio : fix PL translations preventing successfull compile
- All radio : improve CZ translations
- ARM Radio : prevent an emergency reboot when playTone was called with a frequency of 0 Hz
- ARM Radio : Remove faulty throttle reverse warning on outputs page [#4757]
- 9X : fix several compile issues on various combination of options
- LUA : add 'unit' as a return value for getFieldInfo(name) [#4747]
- LUA : Horus joystick are now exported (jsx, jsy)
- LUA : fix INVERS background for Horus fonts
- Companion/Radio : improve DE and FR translations45
- Companion/Horus : fix missing vario settings in telemetry screen [#4696]
- Companion/Horus : default category is now translatable [#4702]
- Companion : improve translation handling
- Companion : indication added for GVAR fields editing
- Companion : conversion improved (X7 -> X9 , X9D -> Horus, Horus -> Taranis)
- Companion : create a new profile create a new blank profile instead of copying current one [#4686]
- Companion : improve handling of splash images between radio types [#4686]
- Companion : Companion now only saves in otx format
- Companion : display warning message on eeprom upgrade
- Companion : show custom control names in all selection lists and displays [#4693].
- Companion : multiple improvements to profile management [#4686, #4737]
- Companion : speed up loading of model editor window [#4689]
- Companion : restore model drag/drop/compare, many UI improvements to main and sub-windows.
- Simulator : AVR radios now work properly on Windows [#4709].
- Simulator : Add Horus T5 and T6 trims [#4738].
- Simulator : properly simulates Tx battery voltage [#4738].
- Simulator : joystick X/Y coordinates no longer show trim influence [#4671]
- Simulator : fix an issue with multi pos switch
- Simulator : fix startup error in standalone mode when eeprom file does not exist
- Simulator : fix wrong default sensor instances [#4711]
- Simulator : new icons
- Simulator : fix rounding on output screen [#4681]
- Companion/Simulator : display again model checklist [#4715]
- Companion/Simulator : improve FR and CZ translations
- Companion/Simulator : various fixes for performance and stability
- Multimodule : add DM0002 protocol

Download links:

[SDCard](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.2/nightly/sdcard/) content for RC15
Note : RC15 uses 2.2v0009.
Changes vs 2.2v0008 :
- percent english voice fix
- a few italian plural units
- all languages : silences at the end of files are drasticaly shortened
- Horus : several fixes for BattCheck widgets

[OpenTX Companion 2.2.0 RC15 (N368) - Windows Installer](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.2/nightly/companion/windows/companion-windows-2.2.0N368.exe)
If you get an error about "api-ms-win-crt-runtime-I1-1-0.dll missing" install [MS VC++ runtime](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/2999226/update-for-universal-c-runtime-in-windows).

[OpenTX Companion 2.2.0 RC15 (N368) - Mac OS X Disk Image](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.2/nightly/companion/macosx/opentx-companion-2.2.0N368.dmg)

OpenTX Companion 2.2.0 RC15 (N368) - Linux DEB Package [64-bit](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.2/nightly/companion/linux/companion22_2.2.0N368_amd64.deb)

OpenTX Companion 2.2.0 RC15 (N368) - Ubuntu [PPA](https://launchpad.net/~opentx-test/+archive/ubuntu/ppa) (Trusty and Yakkety, i386 and amd64)
