---
layout: post
title: "OpenTX 2.2.2 RC1"
description: ""
category: ""
tags: [News]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

We are happy to bring you the first release candidate of OpenTX 2.2.2, with support of the FrSky Xlite radio !

**PLEASE NOTE** the following important information before hastily jumping on it:
Please back up your models and settings before upgrading so that you can go back to your previous version should you not like 2.2.2 or find issues that make it unsuitable for you. Use the "backup radio to file" companion feature for this to have an exact copy of what was on your radio.

- **This is pre-release software.** We've done our best to ensure its quality but we still expect there may be issues, as is the purpose of a release candidate we need your feedback to report things we may have missed.

- The manual has not yet updated to include all Horus documentation/OpenTX 2.2 changes, so get yourself a good coffee to wake up, and refer to the great communities for help e.g. openrcforums [here](http://openrcforums.com/forum/viewforum.php?f=45), RCGroups and threads like [this one](https://www.rcgroups.com/forums/showthread.php?2823315-OpenTx-2-2). You can pop in our [chat room](https://chat.open-tx.org) where other users and/or devs may be available.

- Check during companion install that it installs itself in the correct directory, usually you want "Companion 2.2". If you used 2.2.0 release candidates a bug may cause it to install itself in "Companion 2.1", potentially overwriting your 2.1 install.

- SD card contents can be found [here](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.2/rc/sdcard/). Download the correct archive for your radio type, extract it to the root of an empty SD card and you'll have all needed files. Please note that some existing OpenTX sound packs that where designed for 2.1 won't work due to changes in the naming strategy, so you'll likely want to use those that are included in this archive until popular 3rd-party packs are adapted.

- OpenTX does not touch the internal flash of production Horus radios. Its contents do not need to be backed up and are not accessible in any way when OpenTX firmware is loaded.

- Due to changes introduces by Horus, image, sound, and script file names for ALL radio are restricted to **6 characters** in most places.

**WARNINGS:**

- By default, the setting for companion is to download release only firmware, you NEED to go to settings/settings/application settings and set it to "Use releases and release candidates (testing)" to get new radio firmware or simply 2.2.2 RC firmware.

- Companion now offers assistance for model conversion from one radio type to another. The transferred models NEED to be completely checked and validated before being used, as some things like switches assignments may not get converted properly. The proper way to transfer models from one radio to the other is: Select a profile for the destination radio, read the settings from the destination radio, open the source file or read the source radio, drag models onto the destination radio's window, write destination radio.

- The first versions of Frsky X10/X10s misuse the USB-C port for charging its internal battery. Do not plug anything else in there. For more details see here: [FAQ for X10/X10s USB-C port](https://opentx.gitbooks.io/manual-for-opentx-2-2/faq.html#usb-c-port-on-the-frsky-x10-and-x10s)

**Known issues:**

- If you get an "Invalid Language" error when trying to download firmware after upgrading from 2.1 open the profile settings and reselect your radio type, even if it is already correct.
- The progress bar in companion when reading firmware from a Horus is broken and will reach 100% at only 25% progress. Just wait, the window will close when the process is finished.

- Horus X12S production version and beta version use different hardware. Companion defaults to production hardware, for beta radios check the "pcbdev" firmware option in the profile settings.

Download and install Companion and use it to retrieve and transfer the latest OpenTX firmware to your radio after configuring the proper radio type.

**MUST READ : Xlite** : Xlite trims

Xlite uses a '+' pad for trims. One set of trims can be accessed directly with the '+', the second set needs '+' and pushing 'shift' at the same time. Depending on your radio mode, this can be convenient or not at all. We have introduced a solution that enable Aileron and Elevator of your actual radio mode to be always the default '+' usage. Unfortunately, the firmware that FrSky included in their first batch of Xlite does NOT include this feature, so this is a fairly big usage difference between shipped firmware and actual OpenTx  2.2.2.

**MUST READ : HORUS** : Horus bootloader

Thanks to the work by Raphael Coeffic and Arne Schwabe, a bootloader is now availble for Horus. It allows you to flash a Horus firmware much faster by turning on your radio in bootloader mode (by first holding T4 and T1 toward the center, then pressing the power button), connect to USB and then flash with Companion
Alternatively, you can flash a Horus firmware without using companion simply by putting it on the SDCard, start bootloader mode by first holding T4 and T1 toward the center, then pressing the power button. Once the bootloader started, select write firmwware, navigate to it and press ENTER

**MUST READ : R9M** : R9M EU-LBT

FrSky has released a new firmware version (180428) for R9M-EU modules, that is NOT compatible with previous OpenTx versions.
OpenTX version 2.2.1 : only firmware up to 180329 are ok
OpenTX version 2.2.2 : only firmware 180428 or later are ok

**Main changes since 2.2.1**
- FrSky Xlite : support for the new radio
- FrSky Horus : add bootloader to Horus (see above)
- FrSky Horus : allow splash image on Horus start (put image as /IMAGES/slash.png)
- FrSky Horus : improve rotary encoder overall response
- FrSky Horus : add glider support to model wizard
- FrSky Horus : fix Timer display widget (do not display timer number if a name is defined)
- FrSky Horus : display first persistent timer in model select screen
- FrSky Horus : add mixer warning feature
- FrSky Horus : rework backlight (mode OFF : screen nevers turn completely off, it goes to min backlight (5 for x12, 45 for x10), mode keys/controls : if off setting is set to absolute min, then screen goes fully dark)
- FrSky Horus : fix T5 & T6 trim reuse
- FrSky Horus : add receiver ID check feature
- FrSky Horus : add more language support to Horus fonts
- FrSky X10 : mute audio when no audio is played
- FrSky X9E : fix center beeps for LS
 -FrSky X9E : fix crossfire scripts for X9E navigation
- FrSky X9 : rename trainer Master/Battery to Master/Serial
- FrSky X7/X7S : add CPPM and SBUS trainer mode
- FrSky X7/X7S : fix custom scripts output display
- FrSky X7/X7S : add PREC and unit GVAR support
- FrSky X7/X9 : fix display for timers over 99 hours
- FrSky X7 : fix PPM center display
- FrSky X7 : switch warning UI has been improved
- FrSky radios : add capability to set all custom failsafe channels at once
- FrSky radios : improve R9M UI support
- FrSky radios : fix broken UUID display
- FrSky : telemetry support for new devices : Dual SBEC & High Power ESC (FrESC32_80A) and Gas Suite sensors
- FrSky S6R : fix for LUA script when S6R do not show Quick Mode on last receiver firmware
- FrSky S8R : fix for LUA calibration script showing wrong values on last receiver firmware
- FrSky R9M : see notice above
- All radios : fix GPS logs for small negative values
- All radios : fix throttle warning for reverse POTS/SLIDERS too
- All radios : allow the display of RAS on capable 128x64 radios
- All radios : fix center trim beeps when cross trimming
- All radios : apply THR trim feature also when cross trimming
- All radios : Review FAI modes : now disables all telemetry sensors except RSSI and RXBT (also works with Crossfire)
- LUA : add getRtcTime() function
- LUA : add getTxGPS() function for radio with internal GPS
- LUA : add gtimer support (read using getGeneralSettings(), clear using resetGlobalTimer())
- Crossfire : add support for text sensors like Flight mode
- Crossfire : improve python crossfire parser to handle GPS data
- Crossfire : fix X9E wheel navigation
- Companion : add mixer outputs to output widget
- Companion : fix logical switches not selectable until window is closed and reopened
- Companion : improve model print and compare (thx elecpower)
- Companion : now remembers last used log folder
- Companion : wizard now use mixer instead of override for throttle cut

Download links:

[SDCard](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.2/rc/sdcard/) content for 2.2.2 RC1

SDCard changes since 2.2.1 :
- add support for FrSky Xlite radio
- update SxR scripts to support latest receiver firmware
- add glider wizard for Horus
- review some Horus graphics (mask_iconback)


[OpenTX Companion 2.2.2 RC1 - Windows Installer](https://downloads.open-tx.org/2.2/rc/companion/windows/companion-windows-2.2.2.exe)
If you get an error about "api-ms-win-crt-runtime-I1-1-0.dll missing" install [MS VC++ runtime](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/2999226/update-for-universal-c-runtime-in-windows).

[OpenTX Companion 2.2.2 RC1 - Mac OS X Disk Image](https://downloads.open-tx.org/2.2/rc/companion/macosx/opentx-companion-2.2.2.dmg)

OpenTX Companion 2.2.2 RC1 - Linux DEB Package [64-bit](https://downloads.open-tx.org/2.2/rc/companion/linux/companion22_2.2.2_amd64.deb)

OpenTX Companion 2.2.2 RC1 - Ubuntu [PPA](https://launchpad.net/~opentx-test/+archive/ubuntu/rel/+packages) (i386 and amd64)
