---
layout: post
title: "OpenTX 2.3.3RC1"
description: ""
category: ""
tags: [News]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

We are happy to bring you the release version of OpenTX 2.3.3RC1, with support for the production version of Jumper T16 radios!

**PLEASE NOTE** the following important information before hastily jumping on it:
Please back up your models and settings before upgrading so that you can go back to your previous version should you not like 2.3 or find issues that make it unsuitable for you. Use the "backup radio to file" companion feature for this to have an exact copy of what was on your radio.

- The manual has not yet updated to include all Horus documentation/OpenTX 2.3 changes, so get yourself a good coffee to wake up, and refer to the the great communities for help e.g. openrcforums [here](http://openrcforums.com/forum/viewforum.php?f=45), RCGroups and threads like [this one](https://www.rcgroups.com/forums/showthread.php?2823315-OpenTx-2-2). You can pop in our [chat room](http://opentx.rocket.chat) where other users and/or devs may be available.

- Companion supports reading and writing Horus firmware when the radio is powered off and then connected to USB, using dfu-util and the libusb drivers installed by Zadig, exactly like for the Taranis. See the "Flashing your Taranis Radio" section in [this manual](https://opentx.gitbooks.io/manual-for-opentx-2-2/content/companion-introduction.html). Companion can back up existing firmware (see note below in known issues) including the stock FrSky one (save as .bin), and can flash the FrSky DFU bootloader so that no other tool and/or driver swapping is needed. You might need to disable the "Check hardware compatibility" checkbox in the flashing dialog.

- SD card contents can be found [here](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.3/rc/sdcard/). Download the correct archive for your radio type, extract it to the root of an empty SD card and you'll have all needed files. Please note that all existing OpenTX sound packs that where designed for 2.2 or earlier won't work due to changes in the naming strategy, so you'll likely want to use those that are included in this archive until popular 3rd-party packs are adapted.

- OpenTX does not touch the internal flash of production Horus radios. Its contents do not need to be backed up and are not accessible in any way when OpenTX firmware is loaded.

**WARNINGS:**
- Companion now offers assistance for model conversion from one radio type to another. The transferred models NEED to be completely checked and validation before being used, as some things like switches assignments may not get converted properly. The proper way to transfer models form one radio to the other is to: Select a profile for the destination radio, read the settings from the destination radio, open the source file or read the source radio, drag models onto the destination radio's window, write destination radio.

**Known issues:**

- If you get an "Invalid Language" error when trying to download firmware after upgrading from 2.1 open the profile settings and reselect your radio type, even if it is already correct.
- The progress bar in companion when reading firmware from a Horus is broken and will reach 100% at only 25% progress. Just wait, the window will close when the process is finished.

Download and install Companion and use it to retrieve and transfer the latest OpenTX firmware to your radio after configuring the proper radio type.

###### New radios
- Jumper T16 (all variants, with or without internal MULTI module)
- Jumper T12 Pro (with internal MULTI module, coming soon to market)

###### All radios
- Improve DE, IT and FR translations (thx Xillius178, robustini and LapinFou) 
- Telemetry sensors discovery automaticaly stops when sensors slots are all used
- Better version stamping (allow vendor specific versions)
- External module now off while module selection is being done in model setup
- Trainer input lines disabled when signal is lost

###### Color LCD radios
- Firmware flash from SD manager (receiver, modules,..) in now using THEMES colors
- Bootloader is now renamed to openTX bootloader
- Fix display issue in TOOLS when many tools are available

###### 128x64 LCD radios
- Rework timer display to allow large value been more nicely displayed

###### Frsky
- Improve channels count handling when changing mode
- Fix R9MM-OTA firmware upgrade via OTA
- Fix some values missing in X7 list (Max, ..)
- Reskin X9D+ 2019 simulator (thx Ceeb182)

###### Radio protocols
- MULTI 1.3 advanced support added
    * FrSky script bidirectionnal support (SxR, BF,...)
    * Increase receiver number (up to 63 depending on protocol)
    * Increase max protocol (up to 127)
    * Add ability to disable channel mapping on some protocols
    * Add ability to disable multi telemetry
    * Display module firmware channel order
    * Ability to setup and use new protocol in the module
    * Graupner HoTT support
- Complete rework of FlySky telemetry
- Allow flashing AVR and STM32 MULTI from SD manager (bootloader required on MULTI)
- Spektrum analyser and power meter on compatible MULTI modules
- Fix SBUS channel range on radio and Companion

###### Companion
- Simu use the Batt value of batt warning level + 0.5 volts
- Fix LS editing on cut / paste
- Better handling of readonly files (thx Elecpower)
- Fix incorrectly labeled X7 extra switches
- Improve RX number handling
- Fix wrong channels count for LR12
- Fix D8 import / export

For more details, see [here](https://github.com/opentx/opentx/milestone/48?closed=1).


### Download links:

[SDCard](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.3/rc/sdcard/) content for 2.3.3RC1

Note: 2.3.3RC1 uses 2.3v0024.
Changes vs 2.2:
- Several units have been added
- FrSky Neuron SBEC configuration script added
- Lots of translations improvements
- Fix Horus wizard when no motor chosen
- Improve Horus Batt wideget (Thx shmuely)
- Add Horus Timer2 widget (Thx shmuely)
- Some scripts have been moved to TOOLS

[OpenTX Companion 2.3.3RC1  - Windows Installer](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.3/rc/companion/windows/companion-windows-2.3.3RC1.exe)
If you get an error about "api-ms-win-crt-runtime-I1-1-0.dll missing" install [MS VC++ runtime](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/2999226/update-for-universal-c-runtime-in-windows).

If you're unable to run Companion 2.3. after install, try importing [this registry fix](http://downloads.open-tx.org/tools/remove_companion22_settings_noimport.zip) to avoid companion importing settings from a previous version. Note this clears any existing Companion 2.3 settings.

[OpenTX Companion 2.3.3RC1  - Mac OS X Disk Image](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.3/rc/companion/macosx/opentx-companion-2.3.3RC1.dmg)

[OpenTX Companion 2.3.3RC1  - Linux DEB Package 64-bit](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.3/rc/companion/linux/companion23_2.3.3RC1_amd64.deb)

