---
layout: post
title: "OpenTX 2.3.0"
description: ""
category: ""
tags: [News]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

We are happy to bring you the release version of OpenTX 2.3.0, with support for the production version of the FrSky Xlite-Pro, FrSky X9 Lite, FrSky x10 Express, FrSky X9D+2019 and Jumper T12 radios!

**PLEASE NOTE** the following important information before hastily jumping on it:
Please back up your models and settings before upgrading so that you can go back to your previous version should you not like 2.3 or find issues that make it unsuitable for you. Use the "backup radio to file" companion feature for this to have an exact copy of what was on your radio.

- As a new major release a new data format has been put in place, existing models and settings will be upgraded keeping things compatible as much as possible, but not everything can be converted. Only OpenTX 2.1 and later settings can be upgraded by the radio, if you currently run an even older firmware version you have to either go through 2.1 first before flashing 2.3, or do the conversion within companion. It is absolutely necessary to go through all your models after the upgrade, check they are operating properly and fix the potential issues before flying or applying motor power.

- This is a .0 release. A lot of testing has been done by developers and beta testers, but inevitably some issues only pop up with large scale use and particular use cases, if you're not very adverturous hold off for a few releases until things are well ironed out.

- The manual has not yet updated to include all Horus documentation/OpenTX 2.3 changes, so get yourself a good coffee to wake up, and refer to the the great communities for help e.g. openrcforums [here](http://openrcforums.com/forum/viewforum.php?f=45), RCGroups and threads like [this one](https://www.rcgroups.com/forums/showthread.php?2823315-OpenTx-2-2). You can pop in our [chat room](http://opentx.rocket.chat) where other users and/or devs may be available.

- Companion supports reading and writing Horus firmware when the radio is powered off and then connected to USB, using dfu-util and the libusb drivers installed by Zadig, exactly like for the Taranis. See the "Flashing your Taranis Radio" section in [this manual](https://opentx.gitbooks.io/manual-for-opentx-2-2/content/companion-introduction.html). Companion can back up existing firmware (see note below in known issues) including the stock FrSky one (save as .bin), and can flash the FrSky DFU bootloader so that no other tool and/or driver swapping is needed. You might need to disable the "Check hardware compatibility" checkbox in the flashing dialog.

- SD card contents can be found [here](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.3/sdcard/). Download the correct archive for your radio type, extract it to the root of an empty SD card and you'll have all needed files. Please note that all existing OpenTX sound packs that where designed for 2.2 or earlier won't work due to changes in the naming strategy, so you'll likely want to use those that are included in this archive until popular 3rd-party packs are adapted.

- OpenTX does not touch the internal flash of production Horus radios. Its contents do not need to be backed up and are not accessible in any way when OpenTX firmware is loaded.

**WARNINGS:**
- Companion now offers assistance for model conversion from one radio type to another. The transferred models NEED to be completely checked and validation before being used, as some things like switches assignments may not get converted properly. The proper way to transfer models form one radio to the other is to: Select a profile for the destination radio, read the settings from the destination radio, open the source file or read the source radio, drag models onto the destination radio's window, write destination radio.

**Known issues:**

- If you get an "Invalid Language" error when trying to download firmware after upgrading from 2.1 open the profile settings and reselect your radio type, even if it is already correct.
- The progress bar in companion when reading firmware from a Horus is broken and will reach 100% at only 25% progress. Just wait, the window will close when the process is finished.

Download and install Companion and use it to retrieve and transfer the latest OpenTX firmware to your radio after configuring the proper radio type.


###### ACCESS support on X-Lite Pro, X9 Lite, X9D 20019, X10 Express
- Support up to 24 channels on ACCESS modules when using ACCESS protocol
- Spektrum analyser and power meter on compatible ACCESS modules
- New registration and bind mechanism for ACCESS devices
- Support for OTA updates for upcoming compatible hardware

###### All Radio
- A new TOOLS screen has been added to radio section. This screen provide a shortcuts to either build in tools, or lua scripts located in /SCRIPTS/TOOLS directory
- Version screen now allow you to see the options included in your radio firmware
- Radio logs now logs all switches declared in hardware menu
- Radio with power button have now adjustemment of on/off timing

###### Lua
- Fix TIMEHOUR handling on 128x64 screens
- Telem 1 to (40/60) items added
- Lua mix scripts outputs added 
- Fix DIY first ID to 0x5100
- Introduction of virtual navigation keys
- Added string type to Horus widget

###### Companion
- Multimodule, Crossfire and luac options are included by default in all firmware
- Fix for Negative GVAR precision (Thx Elecpower)
- Add receiver number to model list (Thx Elecpower)
- Add Japaneese translation (Thx Ku2works)
- Improve french translation (Thx LapinFou)
- Fix Companion wizard
- Companion now informs when radio are not currently available

###### Frsky
- Latency for existing XJT modules (internal or external) has been significantly improved
- Support for Neuron lines ESC telemetry
- Support for .frsk firmware files. Those contains identification of target hardware, preventing flashing wrong device with wrong firmware type errors
- Due to an FrSky bug in Bluetooth modules, BT radio names have to be in lower case only
- Add RTC battery status

###### Taranis
- Taranis now allow up to 40 sensors (up from 32)
- Support for additional switches for X7 on PAD400 and PAD401
- Support for X9D REV4a removed (wasn't compiling since 2.2)
- 'full size' modules available on small size external bay as an option
- X9E : prevent timer display overflow on top LCD
- X9E : fix key diagnostic display
- 128x64 : fix trims display
- 128x64 : protect against negative x drawing

###### Horus
- Horus now allows up to 60 sensors (up from 32)
- Support for additional switches and pots for X10 and X12
- X12S internal GPS data are now used only when a decent positionning has been achieved
- Remplacement Express internal module supported using Companion 'internalaccess' option
- Internal module firmware can now be flashed from OpenTX
- Add screenshot special function

###### Sky9x
- Add R9M flex option to Sky9x
- Support for Sky9X REVA removed (wasn't compiling since 2.2)
- Fix for PPM2 not properly initialised

###### Jumper
- Add support for Jumper T12

###### Radio protocols
- Add Crossfire telemetry mirror on serial port
- Add iNav vario sensor to Crossfire
- Support for Multimodule 1.2.1.51 (Thx MRC3742 and PascalLanger)
- Disable RxNUm checks for D8 protocol
- Mixer to pulse synchronisation improved
- Display FlySky volts as signe values (Thx CapnBry)

###### Miscellaneous
- Improve rotary encoder handling on all radios
- Improve Czeck translations (Thx Jannek)
- Improve German translation (Thx SHezinger)
- Improve Italian translations (Thx mzambrini)
- Fix GPS distance callulation on some coordinates
- Update to latest multiprotocol revision

For more details, see [here](https://github.com/opentx/opentx/milestone/26?closed=1).


### Download links:

[SDCard](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.3/sdcard/) content for 2.3.0

Note: 2.3.0 uses 2.3v0020.
Changes vs 2.2:
- several units have been added
- FrSky Neuron SBEC configuration script added
- lots of translations imporvement
- fix Horus wizard when no motor is chosen
- Improve Horus Batt wideget (Thx shmuely)
- Add Horus Timer2 widget (Thx shmuely)

[OpenTX Companion 2.3.0  - Windows Installer](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.3/companion/windows/companion-windows-2.3.0.exe)
If you get an error about "api-ms-win-crt-runtime-I1-1-0.dll missing" install [MS VC++ runtime](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/2999226/update-for-universal-c-runtime-in-windows).

If you're unable to run Companion 2.3. after install, try importing [this registry fix](http://downloads.open-tx.org/tools/remove_companion22_settings_noimport.zip) to avoid companion importing settings from a previous version. Note this clears any existing Companion 2.3 settings.

[OpenTX Companion 2.3.0  - Mac OS X Disk Image](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.3/companion/macosx/opentx-companion-2.3.0.dmg)

OpenTX Companion 2.3.0  - Linux DEB Package [64-bit](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.3/companion/linux/companion22_2.3.0_amd64.deb)

OpenTX Companion 2.3.0 - Ubuntu [PPA](https://launchpad.net/~opentx-test/+archive/ubuntu/rel) (Trusty, Xenial and Yakkety, i386 and amd64)
