---
layout: post
title: "OpenTX 2.3.5 - CRITICAL FOR HORUS FAMILY (FrSky X10/X10 Express/X12 and Jumper T16)"
description: ""
category: ""
tags: [News]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

We are happy to bring you this bug fix version of OpenTX 2.3.5.

**Horus / T16 users:** If you are running a 2.3.x version, please upgrade to this version ASAP, as it fixes several critical bugs for this type of radio 

**PLEASE NOTE** the following important information before hastily jumping on it:
Please back up your models and settings before upgrading so that you can go back to your previous version should you not like 2.3 or find issues that make it unsuitable for you. Use the "backup radio to file" companion feature for this to have an exact copy of what was on your radio.

- The manual has not yet updated to include all Horus documentation/OpenTX 2.3 changes, so get yourself a good coffee to wake up, and refer to the the great communities for help e.g. openrcforums [here](http://openrcforums.com/forum/viewforum.php?f=45), RCGroups and threads like [this one](https://www.rcgroups.com/forums/showthread.php?2823315-OpenTx-2-2). You can pop in our [chat room](https://discord.gg/CZCwVx2) where other users and/or devs may be available.

- Companion supports reading and writing Horus firmware when the radio is powered off and then connected to USB, using dfu-util and the libusb drivers installed by Zadig, exactly like for the Taranis. See the "Flashing your Taranis Radio" section in [this manual](https://opentx.gitbooks.io/manual-for-opentx-2-2/content/companion-introduction.html). Companion can back up existing firmware (see note below in known issues) including the stock FrSky one (save as .bin), and can flash the FrSky DFU bootloader so that no other tool and/or driver swapping is needed. You might need to disable the "Check hardware compatibility" checkbox in the flashing dialog.

- SD card contents can be found [here](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.3/release/sdcard/). Download the correct archive for your radio type, extract it to the root of an empty SD card and you'll have all needed files. Please note that all existing OpenTX sound packs that where designed for 2.2 or earlier won't work due to changes in the naming strategy, so you'll likely want to use those that are included in this archive until popular 3rd-party packs are adapted.

- OpenTX does not touch the internal flash of production Horus radios. Its contents do not need to be backed up and are not accessible in any way when OpenTX firmware is loaded.

**WARNINGS:**
- Companion now offers assistance for model conversion from one radio type to another. The transferred models NEED to be completely checked and validation before being used, as some things like switches assignments may not get converted properly. The proper way to transfer models form one radio to the other is to: Select a profile for the destination radio, read the settings from the destination radio, open the source file or read the source radio, drag models onto the destination radio's window, write destination radio.

**Known issues:**

- If you get an "Invalid Language" error when trying to download firmware after upgrading from 2.1 open the profile settings and reselect your radio type, even if it is already correct.
- The progress bar in companion when reading firmware from a Horus is broken and will reach 100% at only 25% progress. Just wait, the window will close when the process is finished.

Download and install Companion and use it to retrieve and transfer the latest OpenTX firmware to your radio after configuring the proper radio type.

**NIGHTLY USERS / RC Users**
You will need to reset your companion release type to Stable to get release firmware (Companion/Settings/settings/Application Settings/Release channel)

###### New since 2.3.4
- Fix Horus temporary loss of control when an XJT module is used at the same time as an R9M
- Fix Horus / T16 issue where parameters are not properly saved in case of emergency reboot
- B&W radios: fix an issue where only 6 tools could be displayed in RADIO/TOOLS
- 128x64 radios: fix wrong default value when creating a timer logical switch
- Color radios: some fixes to darkblue theme
- X9E: fix SBUS trainer on external module bay
- X7 Access: fix 'invalid board' when trying to download from companion
- Companion: add internal multi option to t16 simu
- Companion: grey unavailable 'backup' option for Horus / T16 radios
- Companion: fix channel shift for X9 LiteS radio
- Companion: fix T5/T6 buttons not working as other trims
- Companion: add TrainerChanel function support
- Multimodule: add FrSky bind options support
- Multimodule: more consistently prioritize module data first when available

### Download links:

[SDCard](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.3/release/sdcard/) content for 2.3.5

Note: 2.3.5 uses 2.3v0025.
No changes since 2.3.4

[OpenTX Companion 2.3.5  - Windows Installer](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.3/release/companion/windows/companion-windows-2.3.5.exe)
If you get an error about "api-ms-win-crt-runtime-I1-1-0.dll missing" install [MS VC++ runtime](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/2999226/update-for-universal-c-runtime-in-windows).

If you're unable to run Companion 2.3. after install, try importing [this registry fix](http://downloads.open-tx.org/tools/remove_companion22_settings_noimport.zip) to avoid companion importing settings from a previous version. Note this clears any existing Companion 2.3 settings.

[OpenTX Companion 2.3.5  - Mac OS X Disk Image](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.3/release/companion/macosx/opentx-companion-2.3.5.dmg)

[OpenTX Companion 2.3.5  - Linux DEB Package 64-bit](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.3/release/companion/linux/companion23_2.3.5_amd64.deb)

