---
layout: post
title: "OpenTX 2.3.6"
description: ""
category: ""
tags: [Releases23, News]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

We are happy to bring you this bug fix version of OpenTX 2.3.6.

**PLEASE NOTE** the following important information before hastily jumping on it:
Please back up your models and settings before upgrading so that you can go back to your previous version should you not like 2.3 or find issues that make it unsuitable for you. Use the "backup radio to file" companion feature for this to have an exact copy of what was on your radio.

- The manual has not yet updated to include all Horus documentation/OpenTX 2.3 changes, so get yourself a good coffee to wake up, and refer to the the great communities for help e.g. openrcforums [here](http://openrcforums.com/forum/viewforum.php?f=45), RCGroups and threads like [this one](https://www.rcgroups.com/forums/showthread.php?2823315-OpenTx-2-2). You can pop in our [chat room](https://discord.gg/CZCwVx2) where other users and/or devs may be available.

- Companion supports reading and writing Horus firmware when the radio is powered off and then connected to USB, using dfu-util and the libusb drivers installed by Zadig, exactly like for the Taranis. See the "Flashing your Taranis Radio" section in [this manual](https://opentx.gitbooks.io/manual-for-opentx-2-2/content/companion-introduction.html). Companion can back up existing firmware (see note below in known issues) including the stock FrSky one (save as .bin), and can flash the FrSky DFU bootloader so that no other tool and/or driver swapping is needed. You might need to disable the "Check hardware compatibility" checkbox in the flashing dialog.

- SD card contents can be found [here](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.3/release/sdcard/). Download the correct archive for your radio type, extract it to the root of an empty SD card and you'll have all needed files. Please note that all existing OpenTX sound packs that where designed for 2.2 or earlier won't work due to changes in the naming strategy, so you'll likely want to use those that are included in this archive until popular 3rd-party packs are adapted.

- OpenTX does not touch the internal flash of production Horus radios. Its contents do not need to be backed up and are not accessible in any way when OpenTX firmware is loaded.

**WARNINGS:**
- Companion now offers assistance for model conversion from one radio type to another. The transferred models NEED to be completely checked and validation before being used, as some things like switches assignments may not get converted properly. The proper way to transfer models form one radio to the other is to: Select a profile for the destination radio, read the settings from the destination radio, open the source file or read the source radio, drag models onto the destination radio's window, write destination radio.

**Known issues:**

- If you get an "Invalid Language" error when trying to download firmware after upgrading from 2.1 open the profile settings and reselect your radio type, even if it is already correct.
- The progress bar in companion when reading firmware from a Horus is broken and will reach 100% at only 25% progress. Just wait, the window will close when the process is finished.

Download and install Companion and use it to retrieve and transfer the latest OpenTX firmware to your radio after configuring the proper radio type.

**NIGHTLY USERS / RC Users**
You will need to reset your companion release type to Stable to get release firmware (Companion/Settings/settings/Application Settings/Release channel)

###### New since 2.3.5

###### All radios
- Tools is now the first screen of RADIO section
- Allow copy min/max/ppm center to all outputs
- Fix lag when using USB sim if both modules are off
- Fix multi firmware flashing is ON
- Allow manual control of power pin on radio with SPORT update connector

###### ColorLcd
- Add missing LUA interval in debug screen
- Improve TextView

###### 212x64
- Fix broken LR12 range check button

###### 128x64
- Chan monitor screen has been added (can display mixer or outputs (select with ENTER button))

###### Companion
- Improve sensor simulation (should work in most cases)
- Add T5/T6 handling where applicable
- Remove EU (D8) option on some radio where it was not applicable
- Jumper T16 simulator: improve button areas

###### LUA
- Fix +/-/exit handling on some radio
- Add color option to drawPoint on colorlcd
- Crossfire: add PREC3 where needed to Crossfire scripts
- Crossfire: add more telemetry buffer to match Crossfire max lengh specifications

###### Miscelaneous
- FrSky ISRM upgrade : add reset counter when mode is changed
- FrSky X9E: fix RTC batt voltage readings
- FrSky: improve R9-STAB handling (OTA)
- Jumper T16: do not display uneeded baudrate choice in hardware screen
- Jumper T16: allow R9M telemetry when used with internal module trainer
- Jumper T12: fix FM editing while scrolling
- Crossfire: add support for Bat% sensor

### Download links:

[SDCard](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.3/release/sdcard/) content for 2.3.6

Note: 2.3.6 uses 2.3v0026.
- Improve BattCheck widget
- Add missing files to DarkBlue theme
- More VIRTUAL usage in many scripts(Thanks lich)
- Some Spanish TTS fixes
- Some Portuguese TTS fixes

[OpenTX Companion 2.3.6  - Windows Installer](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.3/release/companion/windows/companion-windows-2.3.6.exe)
If you get an error about "api-ms-win-crt-runtime-I1-1-0.dll missing" install [MS VC++ runtime](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/2999226/update-for-universal-c-runtime-in-windows).

If you're unable to run Companion 2.3. after install, try importing [this registry fix](http://downloads.open-tx.org/tools/remove_companion22_settings_noimport.zip) to avoid companion importing settings from a previous version. Note this clears any existing Companion 2.3 settings.

[OpenTX Companion 2.3.6  - Mac OS X Disk Image](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.3/release/companion/macosx/opentx-companion-2.3.6.dmg)

[OpenTX Companion 2.3.6  - Linux DEB Package 64-bit](http://downloads.open-tx.org/2.3/release/companion/linux/companion23_2.3.6_amd64.deb)

